John is working on a complex Java based project. John is new to java programming. John is working on a School dataset which he got in the below matrix. Row in matrix has data for a particular class. (e.g. Row 0 is class 1 row 1 is of class 2) and grades are arranged as per roll number in each row. (e.g. class 2 roll number 3 grade is A)
[B+ A C A+...
 C D	A	A+..
 A- B A	A..
.	
 ]
 
This Metrics represents:
[class 1 rollnumber 1, Class 1 roll number 2...
class2  roll number 1, class 2 roll number 2..
.] 
Since John is a new programmer so he doesn't know collections. John has some questions which he is unable to solve by himself. Help John in one line/one word only(Q1 to 6).
Q1: He is given number of students in each class and school has only classes from 1st till 12th. How can he store these constants in Java?

Ans - By using Array 

Q2: He has to identify the correct Data Type for the grade of student. What is the correct data type for grades?

Ans- char datatype

Q3: He has to initialize the complete matrix data by which he can get the data by entering class name and roll number. Please suggest him how he can do that.

ANS- By using 2D array he can inialize the matrix.

Q4: He has to initialize his class without creating objects. He is not sure if it can be done or if it can be so how he can do it.

Ans- There is no such thing in java.

Q5: While doing some operations he got an Exception. Tell him what are the different types of exceptions in Java.

Ans- Different types of Exceptions -  1. compile type exception
                                             (usertype exception ,arithmetic type exception)
                                       2. run type exception

Q6: Tell him what is the base class of Exception and Error.

Ans- the throwable class is the base class of exception nd error.

Q7: Suggest him how he can handle Exceptions and use of finally.

Ans- Java exception handling is managed via five keywords: try, catch, throw, throws, and finally. 
     The finally keyword is used to execute code (used with exceptions - try.. catch statements) no matter if there is an exception or not.

Q8: Write a code snippet to iterate the matrix data.

Ans - for (int i = 0; i < myArrayList.size(); i++) {
  
          System.out.println(myArrayList.get(i));
           // will print each index as it loops
        } 
 
Q9: He has to transfer data to a different system. But he is confused if he can use Serialization and also suggest the purpose of it.
Now Rakesh Join the team and they have to work on the similar data and they have to solve another Problem. They need to enhancement the application. They are also facing some challenges.
Let's help them out.

Ans - Serialization is the process of converting an object into a stream of bytes to store the object or transmit it to memory, a database, or a file.
      Its main purpose is to save the state of an object in order to be able to recreate it when needed.

Q10: They are looking to store the metrics data in collection so roll number and class should be unique and upon entering the same data value should be overridden. what collection they should use.
Q11. Now they have to sort the data as well as the different methods available to sort it in collection and write a generic method to solve collection framed in Q10.
Q12. They faced a very challenging situation here. Now Each class teacher will be entering their students' data concurrently so how can Rakesh and John make their collection thread safe.
Q13. As concurrent users started updating the dataset they are thinking to have a multi threaded application. Suggest them the various ways to create a multithreaded application.

Ans-
Q14. They have another situation where their multi threaded application enters in a deadlock. How to prevent an application from a deadlock situation.
Q15. They got another problem in the code where they are facing memory leaks. What are the different ways to resolve the memory leaks for their app.
 
Ans -1 .Restart Your PC.
     2. Update Your Device Drivers.
     3. Run an Antivirus Scan.


Coding Exercise
Q We have to create a weather records set where 10 cities data can be recorded at 1 min interval. After an hour, records should be sorted as per the cities in a collection. Remember that There can be multiple systems that can enter the weather data so it should support a multi threaded environment and consistency to be met. All java codes should be compiled.