Q1: He is given number of students in each class and school has only classes from 1st till 12th. How can he store these constants in Java?
 Ans: by using 2-d array.

Q2: He has to identify the correct Data Type for the grade of student. What is the correct data type for grades?
Ans: String as we have to store two characters.
Q3: He has to initialize the complete matrix data by which he can get the data by entering class name and roll number. Please suggest him how he can do that.
Ans: int array[class][rollno];

Q4: He has to initialize his class without creating objects. He is not sure if it can be done or if it can be so how he can do it.
Ans: yes it can be done making the class as interface.

Q5: While doing some operations he got an Exception. Tell him what are the different types of exceptions in Java.
Ans: 1. checked exception.
     2. unchecked exception.

Q6: Tell him what is the base class of Exception and Error.
Ans: 1.exception and error- Throwable is the super class.
Q7: Suggest him how he can handle Exceptions and use of finally.
Ans: he can handle the exception by using try, catch block, by throwing the exception using throws keyword, or by using finally block .

Q8: Write a code snippet to iterate the matrix data.
Ans:  for(int row=0;row<12;row++)
      {   System.out.println("enter the no.of students in " + row+1 + "class";
             Scanner sc=new Scanner(System.in);
              int student=sc.nextInt;
              for(int x=0;x<student;x++)
               { array[row][student]}       }
       }

Q9: He has to transfer data to a different system. But he is confused if he can use Serialization and also suggest the purpose of it.
Ans:yes because serialization is used to convert an object to stream so that we can store it in database for later usage.
Now Rakesh Join the team and they have to work on the similar data and they have to solve another Problem. They need to enhancement the application. They are also facing some challenges.
Let's help them out.
Q10: They are looking to store the metrics data in collection so roll number and class should be unique and upon entering the same data value should be overridden. what collection they should use.
 Ans: Hashing can be used.
Q11. Now they have to sort the data as well as the different methods available to sort it in collection and write a generic method to solve collection framed in Q10.
Q12. They faced a very challenging situation here. Now Each class teacher will be entering their students' data concurrently so how can Rakesh and John make their collection thread safe.
Q13. As concurrent users started updating the dataset they are thinking to have a multi threaded application. Suggest them the various ways to create a multithreaded application.
Ans. 1.by exetending Thread class.
     2.by implementing Runnable ineterface.
Q14. They have another situation where their multi threaded application enters in a deadlock. How to prevent an application from a deadlock situation.
ans: 1.Avoid Nested Locks
     2.by using Thread.join()
Q15. They got another problem in the code where they are facing memory leaks.   What are the different ways to resolve the memory leaks for their app.
Ans.1. quickfix.
    2. by manually disabling and enabling the parts of code.
