Features of Java...

1. Simple :- Java is simple because its coding style is very clean and easy to understand. It also removes some of the complex features which were used in old programming languages, such as
pointers, multiple inheritance, operator overloading, etc. Apart from the removal of these confusing and ambiguous concepts, there is a provision of Automatic Garbage Collection, in which
there is no need to remove the unreferenced objects explicitly.

2.Secure :- Java is a secure language , as it does not allow a programmer to explicitly create pointers and programs run in a virtual machine sandbox.

3.Portable :- Java is portable because it facilitates you to carry the Java bytecode to any platform. We can run Java bytecode on any hardware that has a compliant JVM which can convert
the bytecode according to that particular machine.

4.Robust :- Java is robust as it is capable of handling run-time errors, supports automatic garbage collection and exception handling, and avoids explicit pointer concept.

5.Architecture-neutral :- This buzzword means that the program written on one platform or OS is independent of other platforms or environments and can run on any other Operating System.

6.High Performance :- The performance of Java is impressive for an interpreted language because of its intermediate bytecode. Java provides high performance with the use of
“JIT – Just In Time compiler”. Bytecodes generated by the Java compiler are highly optimized, so Java Virtual Machine can execute them much faster.

7.Distributed :- Java is distributed because it facilitates users to create distributed applications in Java. In Java, we can split a program into many parts and store these parts on 
different computers. A Java programmer sitting on a machine can access another program running on the other machine. Java helps us to achieve this by providing the concept of
RMI (Remote Method Invocation) and EJB (Enterprise JavaBeans).

8.Dynamic :-  It supports the dynamic loading of classes. It means classes are loaded on demand. It also supports functions from its native languages, i.e., C and C++.